Python Projects - Housing Model, Crime Data Analysis, and Price Forecasting
Welcome to the Python projects repository! These Jupyter Notebooks have been designed to be easy to use and provide insights into housing prices, crime data, and median price forecasting.

Setup Instructions
1. Install Anaconda
Anaconda is a distribution of Python and R for scientific computing that simplifies package management and deployment. You can download Anaconda from the following link:
Anaconda Download

After downloading and installing Anaconda, you can launch Jupyter Notebooks from the Anaconda Navigator or directly from the command line.

2. Install Required Libraries
After activating your environment, install the necessary libraries. The notebooks in this repository require the following packages:

pandas for data manipulation
seaborn for data visualization
sklearn (scikit-learn) for machine learning
matplotlib for plotting
numpy for numerical computations

Install them using the following commands:

conda install pandas seaborn scikit-learn matplotlib numpy

Alternatively, you can install all the libraries with pip:

pip install pandas seaborn scikit-learn matplotlib numpy

4. Launch Jupyter Notebook
Once all the dependencies are installed, you can launch Jupyter Notebooks by running:

jupyter notebook

This will open the Jupyter Notebook interface in your web browser. Navigate to the project directory and open the desired .ipynb file.

Project Overview
1. housingmodel.ipynb
This notebook contains the analysis and modeling for housing data. To view the results, simply hit Run All at the top of the page. No changes to the code are required.

2. WorkingWithCrime.ipynb
This notebook analyzes crime data. You can also run the entire notebook by hitting Run All. The only optional modification is in cell [7], where you can toggle the plot_graphs variable between True or False to show or hide the crime data visualizations.

3. MedianPriceForecasting.ipynb
In this notebook, running Run All will execute the code. At the bottom of the notebook, you can use the forecast_next() function to forecast the next year's median housing prices. Feel free to add or repeatedly run this function to generate further predictions and graphs.

Conclusion
With these instructions, you should be able to set up the environment, run the Jupyter notebooks, and start analyzing the datasets. If you run into any issues, ensure that all the required libraries are installed and that you're running Python 3 or later.